Dear sir/madam,

I have been a member of Discord since 2016, and it is one of the few companies that I feel I can truly connect with. It has great staff and values, not to mention the fact that it has been a central point around which my career has developed thus far.

I am a natural problem solver and have enjoyed solving problems for as long as I can remember, which is one of the main reasons that I am drawn to programming. I enjoy working on the backend side of things most, though I often work fullstack, and find it fascinating learning about various network designs and ways in which the system can be optimised to increase efficiency and provide a better service to the users.
I am currently a second year student at the University of Hertfordshire and have been achieving only firsts so far in all of my modules. I know this specific job listing is for a full time developer, however I would be committed to keeping up with the work along-side my university work, and additionally from May I will finish for summer and be going on a placement year where I would love to be only working at Discord.

In the past, I have created a discord-inspired chat app which allowed users to create private or public servers with various channels and also allowed for categories (and sub categories) as well as role icons (this was way before these features were released in Discord). My app was only ever text based however it taught me many things about good system design as well as a lot about web development too. It was one of my first projects of that was full-stack and it definately had a large impact on where I am today as a developer.
The first time I ever earned money as a developer was in 2017, and it was by developing a bot for someone I had met on Discord. I then went on to develop a few other bots as well as some Minecraft plugins for people I met using Discord as a platform to meet and communicate with clients.

I am currently working on a Discord bot called Dash and have contacts with many other bot developers in the community. We have grown to 480 servers in just 8 months and are excited about the future of our bot as well as the Discord bot API itself.
When slash commands were released, I found that migrating to them was super easy as I had already set up the code base so that we ran checks based on a JSON structure prior to running the command. It then passed the correct objects as arguments to our commands. This design allowed me to write one simple function to parse the JSON into the format explained by the Discord documentation, and add a new check to a few fetch statements.
I feel like I could bring many ideas to the team with regards to future features for the bot API and feel like my experience with Discord will makes this the perfect position for me.

Honestly, working at Discord would be a dream come true, and I would love to work in any department within the company, however I feel like the bot API would be the perfect area for me due to my experience working on the developer side of the API and my love for working on the backend.

I know you get a lot of applications, most of which probably have fancy words making them sound far better than mine (English isnt my strong point despite me talking the language my whole life!), but it really means a lot that you are taking the time to read this and I am looking forward to hearing something back from you!

Thank you!
  ~ Charlie Ferris.

ps: I would rather you contact me via email, though my phone number is +447876827252 should you need to contact me there.
